# New Media Art

### Baboon by Sagmeister & Walsh
Baboon is a company that produces versatile bags designed for “new generation travelers”. The creative design company Sagmeister & Walsh developed their branding and the face of the campaign fascinated me. The color pallet contains a balance of vibrant and saturated colors, the blue in the background and the orange in the woman’s head piece, and natural colors, the black, grey, and maroon in the ostrich’s feathers. 
The movement of the woman on the animal is also created a very interesting effect to me. The fact that the ostrich is blinking brings life to the picture and the rhythm of the woman patting his head, her feet swinging and the ostrich walking all orchestrate a monotonous movement that incorporate the nature of the image to the artificial background. 

[Baboon](https://sagmeisterwalsh.com/work/all/baboon-branding/)

### Frooti by Sagmeister & Walsh
The advertising campaign for Frooti, the mango juice company from India. The advertising videos that promote the product are mostly computer generated. The mangoes look absolutely realistic, but they are actually made by computers. The effect of the powder coming out of the straws also, looks real, but is also computer generated. The fact that the mangoes are flawless, and their color is unnaturally vibrant is ironic since it is too good to be true. However, because the images displayed are so realistic, the unnatural colors add a playful vibe to the composition. 

[Frooti](https://vimeo.com/121689811)

### “Hear Her” by Pengram

The studio Pentagram designed a campaign for BBC creative that showcased the 100 year anniversary of the legalization of female in the United Kingdom. The clip that represents the visual identity of the campaign is magnificent. The extremely vibrant background colors combine with powerful words such as “respect” and “love” to create a playful yet capturing effect on the audience. Furthermore, the comic pictures of pink female mouths blinking in the background emphasize the voice of women. 

[HearHer](https://www.pentagram.com/work/hear-her/story)


# Interactive Art

### Desire of Codes by Mikami Seiko

Seiko, a Japanese artist created an interactive art exhibition that consists of moving cameras that capture an image of the spectator and uses that picture to construct a canvas with multiple images of the person. 
The canvas in her exposition is made up of multiple black and white pictures that vary according to the movement and position of the spectator. I appreciate that Seiko extracts a colored and lively image of a human being and transfers it into an unsaturated 2-D piece without taking “life” away from her art piece. 

[DesireofCodes](https://www.ntticc.or.jp/en/feature/2011/Desire_of_Codes/index.html)

### Holoman by Arts Electronica
Holoman, an interactive exhibition made by Ars Electronica, is a perfect example of physical computing and interactivity with the end user. 
When the spectator approaches white canvas, they can see their own skeleton displayed on it. The image displayed is simple and resembles one of an x-ray, light blue and white colors generated by light. The simplicity of this piece is suitable for the complex interaction that takes place with the spectator. 

[Holoman](https://ars.electronica.art/center/en/holoman/)


# What is Art?

### Jeff Koons – Art is the Vehicle of Acceptance

In Jeff Koon’s interview in Vehicle of Acceptance, he talks about his personal relationship with art whilst showing the interviewer one of his working space.
The main message of the message of the video is that art is a “personal iconography” or a vocabulary to work with that helps you create a sense of power when building an intellectual and physical interactions between the art piece and the spectator. 
I really enjoyed the ending of the video when he says: “At the end of the day, art is a vehicle of acceptance”. 
My absolute favorite experience in an art exhibition was when I visited Koons’ exhibition in MOMA in 2015. His work is the perfect mixture of fun, boldness and power.
Below are some of my favorite Koons pieces. 

# Algorthmic Design 

### Algorithmic Jewelry 
Jessica Rosenkrantz and Jesse Louis-Rosenberg extended the concept of algorithmic design into the creation of jewelry.
The artists emulated cellular patterns and different geometrical structures to produce beautiful pieces of jewelry that are visually identical to 2-D algorithmic patterns. 

[AlgorithmicJewelry](http://www.designindaba.com/articles/creative-work/algorithmically-designed-jewellery-nervous-system)
 
### Algorithmic Everything
Ross Lovegrove is another artist who brought 2-D algorithmic design to real life. He worked on more robust pieces that varied from shoes to solar-powered cars. His work is more elaborated than the jewelry which gives the effect of advanced technology. The effect of cellular patterns is also seen in these works, which brings upon a more natural aspect to a very robust and technology-based product design. 

[AlgortithmicEverything](http://modernmag.com/the-renaissance-man-of-the-future-ross-lovegrove-at-the-pompidou-center/)

# Data Visualization

### The “dude” Map by Nikhil Sonnad

The dude map illustrates how people call their friends in the US, by “buddy, “pal”, “dude”, “fella”, or “bro”. 
The color pallet varies from light pink to magenta and dark purple, which I appreciate because it adds a hint of femininity to commonly used masculine nicknames. Furthermore, the intensity of the color appears in states where these nicknames are most popularly used. 
I love how the artist displayed the 5 nicknames on top and as you click on each one, the US map gradually changes color. The font used is also minimalist which is perfect because it does not get into the way of the main message of the piece. 

[TheDudeMap](https://qz.com/316906/the-dude-map-how-american-men-refer-to-their-bros/)

### The Enlightened Happy Hour by Column Five Media

The “Enlightened Happy Hour” is an interactive work that shows the calories and alcohol content of a series of drinks. 
The canvas is introduced with a set of film images of a bar and opens up into a main menu with clickable icons displaying cocktails, martinis, beers and wine. Once you click on a drink category, say classic cocktails, images of 4 different ones, Bloody Mary, Long-Island Iced Tea, Mojito and Cuba Libre show up. And once you click on any of those, the information on each one displayed. 
The work is displayed with pictures which brings life to the canvas and makes the interactivity with the user more real. It emulates a consumer in a bar looking into the drink’s menu. On top of that, the information about the drinks are displayed in a clean and simple manner which doesn’t clash with the complexity of the images. 

[HappyHour](http://cocktail.columnfivemedia.com/index.html)
